Radar is an active sensor that sends light waves out into
the environment and then receives those waves as they deflect back from objects.
We can apply signal processing to those radar wave forms in
order to understand the position and velocity of objects in the environment.
In particular, we measure position based on how long it takes for
a wave to propagate out and then return back to the radar unit.
We measure velocity based on the Doppler effect,
the shift in frequency that a radar waveform
undergoes when it bounces off an object and returns back to the unit.
One of the challenges of radar is its low resolution.
You basically just get a signal about where an object is and how
fast it's moving with very little other information about the object.
On the other hand,
the benefits of radar are that it's highly reliable and functions in
many different types of environments that are challenging for other types of sensors,
and that radar is inexpensive and very
cost-effective to put on to many different types of robots.
Both of these make radar
an extremely important sensor for many different types of applications.